# education econ
- If you go to college, the cost is not just tuition and books, it's also the income you could have earned by going straight into the workforce"
- The opportunity costs of compulsory pre-college schooling include the opportunity cost to students of the time that they spend in school and the opportunity cost to society of the lost innovation in curricula and methods that a competitive market in education services would generate.    
- "Why do governments spend billions funding universal public education?(1) Why not let profit-seeking businesses handle it? Many argue that if education was entirely  privatized, it's likely that some children would be excluded (2) and  that would make society as a whole worse off 
- Education is a positive externality(3)" 

1. This "why" question has three interpretations: the historical "why?"(a), the welfare-economic "why?"(b), and the political science "why?"(c). 
    a) The US "public" (i.e., government-operated) school system originated in response to theocratic imperatives in the religious colonies of British North America [search "that old deluder, Satan] and later in anti-Catholic bigotry [search "bible riots]. 
    b) The "public goods" argument implies subsidy and regulation, at most, not State operation of an industry. See Steuerle, et. al., _Vouchers and the Provision of Public Services_. Furthermore, the conclusion, that taxpayers or "society" benefit from tax subsidization of public goods does  not follow from the definition and standard economic reasoning. Corporate oversight is a public good and the State is a corporation. Therefore, oversight of State functions is a public good which the State itself cannot provide [search "regulatory capture"]. State assumption of responsibility for the provision of public goods transforms the free rider argument at the root of public goods analysis but does not eliminate it. 
    c) The US K-12 school system has become an employment program for dues-paying members of the NEA/AFT/AFSCME cartel, a source of padded construction, consulting, and supply contracts for politically-connected insiders, and a venue for State-worshipful indoctrination. The current system survives on strident lobbying by current recipients of the taxpayers' $640 billion+ per year K-12 school subsidy 
2. Some children will fall through the cracks in any system.
3.  I suspect you mean "public good". Often asserted but seldom even given an attempted demonstration. Whether education is a positive externality (or, public good) will depend on what you call "education"
