# labor market and minimum wage
- Which one of the following factor of production has most inelastic supply ?
    1. land 
    2. labour 
    3. capital
    4. enterprises
- Free market capitalism, universally ends up with a few successful rich, and many many poor who's luck ran out. It's just the nature of reality, you need only look at the origins of the British Industrial Revolution. It was only after socialists like Robert Owen stepped in to stand up and publish works on the squalid living conditions before parliament that conditions and wages improved. By free-totally free unrestricted capitalism, I'd probably be working for pennies in a coal mine. Sure that may be totally fair, but socialism-something synthetic- a concept in which we share the wealth collectively and democratically-can people prosper-sure that may not be fair or natural-but its morally correct.
- What wasn't mentioned is that the Krueger and Card study was flawed and its results haven't been replicated.  It also defies logic to believe that raising min. wages won't have an impact on employment or sales.  Unless a particular market is enjoying a huge amount of growth, the money has to be made up for somewhere.  That could mean trimming 40 hour work weeks to 30, laying off employees, or not hiring new employees.  Usually raising prices and passing those costs on to consumers isn't the answer because there's a slim margin for what the consumer will pay for a given product.  A fast food restaurant may have no problem selling a $5 burger, but if the price is doubled then the consumer may figure for that price she may prefer going to a non-fast food restaurant.  If the owner doesn't make up the difference somewhere, then profits will be reduced and the business goes belly up, meaning that the $15 hour min. wage employee now gets $0 per hour along with reduced prospects at finding a new job.  Moreover, at the higher wage, employers can be more selective and pick only those with years of experience or a higher than average level of education, which shuts unskilled workers or underskilled workers out of the market.  To believe that raising the min. wage will have no adverse effects is to believe in magical thinking, it's to believe in unicorns and rainbows that sprouting outside people's windows
- Minimum Wage should be based on the cost of living. A person living in New York has to pay more for rent than a person living in Wisconsin. There a difference in what the two people working in different McDonalds can afford based on their cost of living.
- This video completely fails to address the most significant aspect of this discussion. Automation is the central issue with regard to minimum wage hikes. The reality is once workers demand a wage that's more costly for the employer than it is to run a machine, guess what? They're out of work and millions of people now earn $0 / hour. It's precisely what every service industry CEO has said when asked about the $15 minimum. 

Plus, minimum wage is not meant to be a family's primary source of income. It's supposed to be an entry level position that acts as a stepping stone to upward mobility. You start out on the bottom and once you've mastered the job, you get promoted to management and off of minimum wage. I mean, I was getting minimum wage when I was in high school. It's not intended for heads of households.
- You did a terrible job on the foundations for the labor market, instead of actually teaching people how mainstream economists actually study the labor market. You avoided it, so that you could push econometric studies instead of actually teaching the labor models. If you two are actually economists I am sad.

